Hi, everyone, in this last year, we are going to talk about more Arae methods.
All right, so the first method in this lecture that I want to talk about is the includes method, which
is the seventh method, totally.
So we are going to go ahead and create an array and I'm going to call it moods one.
Right.
And the items inside this array are going to be happy.
And then we have set and then we have satisfied.
Right.
Let's log this array to the console.
And we are going to say move to one, let's save it, so we have happy, sad and satisfied.
So how can we check if something or an item exists within the right and this method works in the same
way as with strings.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to say that includes what do we want to look for?
We want to look for happy.
So we are going to put it inside a quotation and this returns.
True.
So the result of this includes method for a raise is going to be a boolean.
All right.
So we can go ahead and do one more, one more and let's call it, I don't know, like.
Uh, frustrated.
And it's in return is false because we don't have frustrated inside this array.
So this is how the includes method works.
I'm not going to comment that out.
I'm going to keep it there.
The next method that I want to talk about is the concat method.
All right, and it combines or merges two or more iRace together, right?
So we are going to create another array as well.
And I'm going to call it moods, too.
All right.
And this array is going to have frustrated inside of it as an item.
Then we have uncertain.
Right.
And then we have relaxed.
So we have one array here and the other arrays here.
Let's let's say we want to merge these two arrays together.
So we are going to say cancel the log.
First off, we are going to grab our first array and we are going to say that concat.
What do we want to add to this array?
What do we want to merge it with?
We are going to grab our secondary moots, too.
So we have happy, satisfied, As'ad, satisfied, frustrated, uncertain, relaxed.
OK, so we can go the other way around as well.
We want to grab our first moots array and we want to add it to this.
And we grab this and we grab the first moots around.
We added to the second one and when we save it, you guys can see that the order is reversed.
This is mood one, then mood two.
But this is mood to then mood one.
So you can go either way.
The next method that I want to talk about is going to be the the reverse method, and this method reverses
and array.
All right.
So let's go ahead and let's consider log one of the arrays.
Let's grab a mahmud's one.
OK, so this is Muj one, and let's call the reverse method on it.
Let's save it.
And then you guys can see we have satisfied and then side then happy.
This array has been reversed.
Right.
So this is the reverse method.
The next and final method that I want to talk about is the join method join method.
This converts the right to a string.
This converts any right to a string.
Right.
So, for example, let's grab our second array, this moots to array.
We are going to consider to the log so we can see our results.
All right.
So let's grab moods, too, and we are going to say dot join.
OK, so first off, let's just call the DOT join and we we can see that this array has been converted
into a string, into a string of words.
Right.
So when we don't provide it with any argument inside the joint array, what if what if I provided with
just an empty string, that's it.
And let's save it.
And then we can see that the commas, they have been removed because when you provide it, when you
don't provide anything, we are going to grab the we are going to have the entire I'm sorry, this is
the array.
But when we provided with an empty string, we have different items inside and array.
And what is the character that combines those different items inside that array?
It is the comma.
And in here, what do we want to do is what do we what we do is actually we remove that comma, we replace
that comma with whatever is inside the string, because this is an empty string.
We don't have anything.
And everything is like like everything is like one word.
Frustrated, uncertain and relaxed.
Right.
So what if we change that comma?
With a space and then we can see this is actually how it works.
All right, we can do one more, right?
We can change it with a dash and we can see frustrated, uncertain, relaxed.
All right.
So this is the join method and that's it for now for our methods.
There are two more things that I want to discuss in this video.
The first thing is that we are nesting and the second thing is using CONSED with arrays.
Right.
So I'm just going to come here and I'm going to say nesting.
We can nest one array inside another array.
Right.
So we can have an array of not items but an array of sorry, an array of arrays.
It was very difficult for me to pronounce.
So we have and we have a great array of arrays, we can't do this as well.
So first off, let's go ahead and let's create our array.
And I'm just going to call it favs favorites.
Right.
And this is incorrect.
It's Consed Favs or favorites.
So this is our array.
Right.
And inside this array, we can have a bunch of more arrays.
OK, and the first array is going to hold the name of movies and movie names.
So the first one is definitely in-game.
Then we have infinity.
Infinite T wars, then we have civil wars.
Then we have Iron Man and finally we have Thor, right?
So this is our first story, but this is actually an item of this, right?
So we have to separate the items by a comma.
This is going to be our secondary.
What I'm going to do is I'm just going to go ahead and and increase the width of this window so we can
see everything.
Everything should be on one line.
All right.
And this one is going to be the name of superheroes, this era.
And I'm going to say Batman, Batman and then Superman and then Wonder Woman, the Trinity.
All right.
So the next array is going to be the name of Marvel superheroes.
So we have Spiderman.
Spy door man, so this is where is the deal?
This is Spiderman and then we have you know what?
I'm just going to go ahead and copy the rest of them, because it's super simple.
I don't want to waste more time.
And let's go ahead and let's uncommented.
So this is movies, superheroes, and then again, superheroes, directors and actors, favorite actors.
All right.
So we have Fab's.
So this is an array of arrays right here inside this array.
We have five other arrays as as array items to this array.
So let's go ahead and let's consider log our favs array.
And now you guys can see we have five more arrays inside there.
And each of them, well, I should probably make this smaller and make this one bigger so we can see
everything better.
I'm going to zoom out of it, so this is this is our first arrest and this array has an index of zero.
The length of this array is five.
The length of this is three.
And you can see, although we have a lot of information inside the console and we can use all this information
to our own benefit.
Right.
So the first array has an index of zero all the way to the last array, which has an index of four.
We can go ahead and we can access any array based on their index.
So let's go ahead and access the array, which has an index of one.
So this is done.
All right.
We can access an array that has an index of for this, is that right?
So we can access those index indices.
We can also access, for example, inside this array number for the inside the array, which has an
index of four.
We can access the individual items as well.
And for that we provide another Brackett's and then we have the DiCaprio.
So let's let's take a look at what the syntax actually means.
So we have an array of arrays.
The array, which has an index of four is this array.
And the items inside this array are DiCaprio, Harvey, Toby and Andrew.
All right.
And the and when we whenever we open this array, the item which has the index of zero is DiCaprio.
That's why we have chosen to copy.
So we are going to levels deep.
All right.
We can use templates, strings or template literals with these arrays as well.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to copy it down here and I'm going to remove.
Everything and I'm going to provide back ticks, all right, and remove everything, and we are going
to say we are going to top our because whenever we are talking with template literals, we should provide
it with the variable name, template, template literals just only work with variable names.
Right.
So I'm just going to go ahead and provided this one in here.
All right, so what is the result of this we know the result of this as DiCaprio.
We know that, right?
It is DiCaprio.
And I'm going to say is.
Let's go ahead and you know what, I'm going to change it, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to
grab the array that has an index of three.
And I want this I want to grab that one so that this item, RIFs, what is the index of Reeves'?
The index of Reeves' is to so I'm going to provide it here is directing the new Batman movie.
And let's capitalize, save it, Reeves is directing the new Batman movie.
So this is how we can extract information from a race, right?
So this is the first safe topic that I wanted to talk about.
The second topic is that we can use CONSED with a race.
We know that constants these these are used whenever we do not want to change the variable.
OK, but they are used with whenever we use constants with primitive data types, we cannot reassign
that variable name.
Right.
But why do we use them with reference data types?
Because in reference data types, a reference to this array has been stored inside the memory.
When the very first the very first lecture in the second chapter, we talked about how JavaScript is
a high level language.
It means that it takes care of memory management so we don't have to worry about memory management,
OK, as opposed to lower level, lower level languages.
All right.
So whenever we use const variable with an array and arrays are reference types, meaning that a reference
to this array has been stored inside the memory.
So this this this array has not been stored.
The reference, which is this moots one has been stored.
All right.
So as long as we do not change, we do not re declare moots one, we should be good.
OK, so now you guys saw how we only had fiefs, right.
And we changed that phasuk.
OK, we accessed it in here, for example.
This is the card.
So this is Modesta.
But we added moots one to Mountstuart.
We actually changed this array.
Right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to comment about everything here and I'm going to show you how
we did this.
So I'm going to comment in these two scenarios can see, even though moots one and still both of them
are constant variables, but we were able to change the data inside that array.
We cannot redeclared Mountstuart, for example, if I were to say I'm just going to comment here, not
allowed.
And it's going to be and it's going to be like every right.
So if I go ahead and if I say I want to change moods one to another array of, let's say one and two,
we are going to see assignment to constant variable.
We cannot change there because this moots one is a reference.
We cannot change the reference, but we can change the data inside of that.
OK, so this is why it is a best practice to use CONSED with arrays and with objects, because we can
modify the array itself.
As you guys can see here, we have added three items to this Mudd's one array, but we cannot.
We declare redeclared modes one and this and that keeps that prevents our application from breaking
down, that prevents from bugs to be created inside our application and for us to waste our time debugging
that code.
And I just wanted to mention this.
And that's it for this letter.
See you guys in the next one.